README.md, before:

# <span><img width="35" height="35" src="https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/blob/main/src-tauri/icons/128x128.png"></span> Emoji Mart desktop popup

Modern emoji picker popup app for desktop, based on the amazing [Emoji Mart](https://github.com/missive/emoji-mart) web component.

- 🍾 Built as a popup: quick invocation through your system custom shortcuts, and disappears when not needed, does not stay as a standalone window, does not run in the background
- 🔎 Search text box automatically focused and ready to type when invoked
- ⌨️ Can use the keyboard to navigate and select emojis
- 🧠 Remember your favorite emojis
- ⚔️ Cross-platform, can be installed natively on Linux, MacOS, or Windows (although only tested on Linux at the moment)
- 🧑‍🚀 Uses modern and flexible technologies (TSX for the UI, Rust for the cross-platform compilation, what else?), making it easier to maintain and build upon in the future
- ✒️ On x11 the selected emoji is automatically pasted to your currently focused app, instead of being added to the clipboard! (it allows to uses emojis without losing what was copied before)

![Emoji Mart screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/main/public/screenshot.png)

Built with [Tauri](https://tauri.app/), [Solid JS](https://www.solidjs.com/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), and [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).

## 📥️ Installation

### 🐧 Linux

<a href='https://flathub.org/apps/io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart'><img width='240' alt='Download on Flathub' src='https://dl.flathub.org/assets/badges/flathub-badge-en.png'/></a>

or

```bash
flatpak install io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart
```

You can then create a custom system keyboard shortcut, start the emoji picker with the command:

```bash
flatpak run io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart
```

<details><summary>Alternatively you can also use the <code>.AppImage</code> file</summary>

Run this command to download the `.AppImage`, and create a desktop file for it:

```bash
curl -Ls https://raw.github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/main/install.sh | bash
```

Or manually download the `.AppImage` file from the [latest release](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases/latest), and install it.

And you will need to make sure `xdotool` is installed on the system, e.g. for fedora:

```bash
sudo dnf install libxdo-devel
```

</details>

### 🍎 MacOS

Download the `.dmg` for the [latest release](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases/latest), and install it.

### 🪟 Windows

Download the `.exe` for the [latest release](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases/latest), and install it.

## 🛠️ Development

[![Latest release](https://shields.io/github/v/release/vemonet/EmojiMart)](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases/latest) [![Build app](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/build.yml) [![Publish new release](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/release.yml)

Recommended IDE Setup: [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [Tauri](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tauri-apps.tauri-vscode) + [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)

### 🧶 Install

See pre-requesites to run tauri: https://tauri.app/v1/guides/getting-started/prerequisites

Additional dependencies for Linux:

```bash
sudo dnf install libX11-devel libxdo-devel
```

Install dependencies:

```bash
make install
```

### 🛩️ Run

In development mode, with automatic reload when the code changes:

```bash
make dev
```

> To see logs and debug: right click on the app window, and select `Inspect Element`

### 📦️ Build

To build the **Flatpak** package checkout this repository: [github.com/vemonet/flathub/tree/io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart](https://github.com/vemonet/flathub/tree/io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart)

Build `.AppImage` and `.deb` packages, or `.dmg`/`.exe` depending on your OS:

```bash
make build
```

On Linux, install the previously built `EmojiMart.AppImage` as desktop app:

```bash
make desktop-local
```

### ⏫ Upgrade dependencies

Check latest:

- EmojiMart web component: [npmjs.com/package/emoji-mart](https://www.npmjs.com/package/emoji-mart) and [npmjs.com/package/@emoji-mart/data](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@emoji-mart/data)
- Tauri app: [tauri.app](https://tauri.app)

```bash
make upgrade
```

### 🏷️ New release

To publish a new release, follow this process:

1. Make sure you have changed the version in: `package.json`, `src-tauri/Cargo.toml` and `src-tauri/tauri.conf.json`

2. Merge the `main` branch to the `release` branch, and push the `release` branch to GitHub. A [GitHub Action workflow](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/release.yml) will automatically build the artefacts for the different platforms, and create a draft release

3. Then you can review the draft on the [**Releases** page](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases): click **Generate release notes**, and click **Publish release**

4. Finally update the tag on the flathub repository to trigger a new release on flathub.

### 🔄 Change icon

Put your icon file named `app-icon.png` (ideally size 512 or 1024) at the root of the repo, and run (cf. [official docs](https://tauri.app/fr/v1/guides/features/icons/)):

```bash
make icon
```

## 📋️ Notes

The app currently does not run in the background. It could be invoked slightly faster with a built-in shortcut, and running in the background, but that increases the chances of people starting many phantom processes without knowing. When running in the background and invoked using the built-in shortcut the window is not properly focused. Alternatively when installed with flatpak starting it without letting it run in the background is fast enough for using it like this directly, and does not have any issue with focusing.

Letting the user register custom system shortcuts, instead of having the app registering the shortcut for the user, prevents bugs and conflicts with other shortcuts. Which enable the users to choose from a larger amount of shortcuts.

Inspired by [github.com/Simon-Laux/tauri-emoji-mart-app](https://github.com/Simon-Laux/tauri-emoji-mart-app), difference are that we use Solid JS instead of React, and the popup design and performances have been improved.

[Icon](https://www.vecteezy.com/vector-art/5726169-cardboard-box-funny-box-box-character-delivery-box-box-emoji) credits: <a href="https://www.vecteezy.com/members/duniaonme653898">duniaonme653898 on Vecteezy</a>

### ☑️ Todo

- [ ] Check if light/dark mode is picked up properly from the system settings

Commit message:

fix upgrade command for yarn v1

README.md, after:

# <span><img width="35" height="35" src="https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/blob/main/src-tauri/icons/128x128.png"></span> Emoji Mart desktop popup

Modern emoji picker popup app for desktop, based on the amazing [Emoji Mart](https://github.com/missive/emoji-mart) web component.

- 🍾 Built as a popup: quick invocation through your system custom shortcuts, and disappears when not needed, does not stay as a standalone window, does not run in the background
- 🔎 Search text box automatically focused and ready to type when invoked
- ⌨️ Can use the keyboard to navigate and select emojis
- 🧠 Remember your favorite emojis
- ⚔️ Cross-platform, can be installed natively on Linux, MacOS, or Windows (although only tested on Linux at the moment)
- 🧑‍🚀 Uses modern and flexible technologies (TSX for the UI, Rust for the cross-platform compilation, what else?), making it easier to maintain and build upon in the future
- ✒️ On x11 the selected emoji is automatically pasted to your currently focused app, instead of being added to the clipboard! (it allows to uses emojis without losing what was copied before)

![Emoji Mart screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/main/public/screenshot.png)

Built with [Tauri](https://tauri.app/), [Solid JS](https://www.solidjs.com/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), and [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).

## 📥️ Installation

### 🐧 Linux

<a href='https://flathub.org/apps/io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart'><img width='240' alt='Download on Flathub' src='https://dl.flathub.org/assets/badges/flathub-badge-en.png'/></a>

or

```bash
flatpak install io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart
```

You can then create a custom system keyboard shortcut, start the emoji picker with the command:

```bash
flatpak run io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart
```

<details><summary>Alternatively you can also use the <code>.AppImage</code> file</summary>

Run this command to download the `.AppImage`, and create a desktop file for it:

```bash
curl -Ls https://raw.github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/main/install.sh | bash
```

Or manually download the `.AppImage` file from the [latest release](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases/latest), and install it.

And you will need to make sure `xdotool` is installed on the system, e.g. for fedora:

```bash
sudo dnf install libxdo-devel
```

</details>

### 🍎 MacOS

Download the `.dmg` for the [latest release](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases/latest), and install it.

### 🪟 Windows

Download the `.exe` for the [latest release](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases/latest), and install it.

## 🛠️ Development

[![Latest release](https://shields.io/github/v/release/vemonet/EmojiMart)](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases/latest) [![Build app](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/build.yml) [![Publish new release](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/release.yml)

Recommended IDE Setup: [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [Tauri](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tauri-apps.tauri-vscode) + [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)

### 🧶 Install

See pre-requesites to run tauri: https://tauri.app/v1/guides/getting-started/prerequisites

Additional dependencies for Linux:

```bash
sudo dnf install libX11-devel libxdo-devel
```

Install dependencies:

```bash
make install
```

### 🛩️ Run

In development mode, with automatic reload when the code changes:

```bash
make dev
```

> To see logs and debug: right click on the app window, and select `Inspect Element`

### 📦️ Build

To build the **Flatpak** package checkout this repository: [github.com/vemonet/flathub/tree/io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart](https://github.com/vemonet/flathub/tree/io.github.vemonet.EmojiMart)

Build `.AppImage` and `.deb` packages, or `.dmg`/`.exe` depending on your OS:

```bash
make build
```

On Linux, install the previously built `EmojiMart.AppImage` as desktop app:

```bash
make desktop-local
```

### ⏫ Upgrade dependencies

You might want to upgrade the latest versions of:

- Tauri app: [tauri.app](https://tauri.app)
- EmojiMart web component: [npmjs.com/package/emoji-mart](https://www.npmjs.com/package/emoji-mart) and [npmjs.com/package/@emoji-mart/data](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@emoji-mart/data)

```bash
make upgrade
```

### 🏷️ New release

To publish a new release, follow this process:

1. Make sure you have changed the version in: `package.json`, `src-tauri/Cargo.toml` and `src-tauri/tauri.conf.json`

2. Merge the `main` branch to the `release` branch, and push the `release` branch to GitHub. A [GitHub Action workflow](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/actions/workflows/release.yml) will automatically build the artefacts for the different platforms, and create a draft release

3. Then you can review the draft on the [**Releases** page](https://github.com/vemonet/EmojiMart/releases): click **Generate release notes**, and click **Publish release**

4. Finally update the tag on the flathub repository to trigger a new release on flathub.

### 🔄 Change icon

Put your icon file named `app-icon.png` (ideally size 512 or 1024) at the root of the repo, and run (cf. [official docs](https://tauri.app/fr/v1/guides/features/icons/)):

```bash
make icon
```

## 📋️ Notes

The app currently does not run in the background. It could be invoked slightly faster with a built-in shortcut, and running in the background, but that increases the chances of people starting many phantom processes without knowing. When running in the background and invoked using the built-in shortcut the window is not properly focused. Alternatively when installed with flatpak starting it without letting it run in the background is fast enough for using it like this directly, and does not have any issue with focusing.

Letting the user register custom system shortcuts, instead of having the app registering the shortcut for the user, prevents bugs and conflicts with other shortcuts. Which enable the users to choose from a larger amount of shortcuts.

Inspired by:

* [github.com/tom-james-watson/Emote](https://github.com/tom-james-watson/Emote) my favorite GTK emoji picker 
* [github.com/Simon-Laux/tauri-emoji-mart-app](https://github.com/Simon-Laux/tauri-emoji-mart-app) who combined tauri with emoji-mart, difference are that we use Solid JS instead of React, and the popup design and performances have been improved.

[Icon](https://www.vecteezy.com/vector-art/5726169-cardboard-box-funny-box-box-character-delivery-box-box-emoji) credits: <a href="https://www.vecteezy.com/members/duniaonme653898">duniaonme653898 on Vecteezy</a>

### ☑️ Todo

- [ ] Check if light/dark mode is picked up properly from the system settings
